docs/index.md, before:

 
# Introduction

``BDF.jl`` is a julia module to read BIOSEMI 24-bit [BDF files](http://www.biosemi.com/faq/file_format.htm).


## Download and Installation

The source code of ``BDF.jl`` is hosted on
github: [https://github.com/sam81/BDF.jl](https://github.com/sam81/BDF.jl)

It can be installed in Julia using

```julia
Pkg.add("BDF")
```

## Usage

Load the module

```julia
using BDF
```

To read an entire BDF recording

```julia
dats, evtTab, trigChan, sysCodeChan = readBDF("res1.bdf")
```

`dats` is the nChannelXnSamples matrix containing the data. Note that the 
triggers are not contained in the `dats` matrix. The triggers can be retrieved 
either trough the event table (`evtTab`), or the raw trigger channel (`trigChan`). 
The eventTable is a dictionary containing the trigger codes `evtTab["code"]`, 
the trigger indexes `evtTab["idx"]` (i.e. the sample numbers at which triggers 
occurred in the recording), and the trigger durations `evtTab["dur"]` (in seconds). 
The raw trigger channel returned in `trigChan` contains the trigger code for each recording sample. 
Additional Biosemi status codes (like CM in/out-of range, battery low/OK) are returned in `sysCodeChan`.

You can also read only part of a recording, the following code will read the first 10 seconds of the recording:

```julia
dats, evtTab, trigChan, statChan = readBDF("res1.bdf", from=0, to=10) 
```    

The `readBDFHeader` function can be used to get information on the BDF recording:

```julia
bdfInfo = readBDFHeader("res1.bdf")
```

Get the duration of the recording:

```julia
bdfInfo["duration"]
```
Get the sampling rate of each channel:

```julia
    bdfInfo["sampRate"]
```

Get the channel labels:

```julia
bdfInfo["chanLabels"]
```


Beware that `BDF.jl` does not check that you have sufficient RAM to 
read all the data in a BDF file. If you try to read a file that is
too big for your hardware, your system may become slow or unresponsive.
Initially try reading only a small amount of data, and check how much
RAM that uses. 

### Bugs

Please, report any bugs on the project [issues page](https://github.com/sam81/BDF.jl/issues)

#### Known Issues

No particular attention has been given to decoding the information stored in the
`sysCodeChan` (like CM in/out-of range, battery low/OK), suggestions on how to 
handle this are welcome.

Commit message:

Added function to decode status channel info

docs/index.md, after:

 
# Introduction

``BDF.jl`` is a julia module to read BIOSEMI 24-bit [BDF files](http://www.biosemi.com/faq/file_format.htm).


## Download and Installation

The source code of ``BDF.jl`` is hosted on
github: [https://github.com/sam81/BDF.jl](https://github.com/sam81/BDF.jl)

It can be installed in Julia using

```julia
Pkg.add("BDF")
```

## Usage

Load the module

```julia
using BDF
```

To read an entire BDF recording

```julia
dats, evtTab, trigChan, sysCodeChan = readBDF("res1.bdf")
```

`dats` is the nChannelXnSamples matrix containing the data. Note that the 
triggers are not contained in the `dats` matrix. The triggers can be retrieved 
either trough the event table (`evtTab`), or the raw trigger channel (`trigChan`). 
The eventTable is a dictionary containing the trigger codes `evtTab["code"]`, 
the trigger indexes `evtTab["idx"]` (i.e. the sample numbers at which triggers 
occurred in the recording), and the trigger durations `evtTab["dur"]` (in seconds). 
The raw trigger channel returned in `trigChan` contains the trigger code for each recording sample. 
Additional Biosemi status codes (like CM in/out-of range, battery low/OK) are returned in `sysCodeChan`.

You can also read only part of a recording, the following code will read the first 10 seconds of the recording:

```julia
dats, evtTab, trigChan, statChan = readBDF("res1.bdf", from=0, to=10) 
```    

The `readBDFHeader` function can be used to get information on the BDF recording:

```julia
bdfInfo = readBDFHeader("res1.bdf")
```

Get the duration of the recording:

```julia
bdfInfo["duration"]
```
Get the sampling rate of each channel:

```julia
bdfInfo["sampRate"]
```

Get the channel labels:

```julia
bdfInfo["chanLabels"]
```

To read the information stored in the status channel you can use the `decodeStatusChannel` function

```julia
statusChanInfo = decodeStatusChannel(sysCodeChan)
```
this will return a dictionary with several arrays that indicate for each sample of the recordings whether CMS was in range, whether the battery charge was low, the speedmode of the system, and other information stored in the status channel.

Beware that `BDF.jl` does not check that you have sufficient RAM to 
read all the data in a BDF file. If you try to read a file that is
too big for your hardware, your system may become slow or unresponsive.
Initially try reading only a small amount of data, and check how much
RAM that uses. 

### Bugs

Please, report any bugs on the project [issues page](https://github.com/sam81/BDF.jl/issues)
